Everyone gets sad now and then.
Do you?
In some cases, you may know the cause;
in other cases, you may not.
Even if there doesn’t seem to be a cause,
what can you do when sadness
holds you in its grip?
First, find someone to talk to about it,
such as a parent or close friend.
In the midst of his turmoil,
Job, a faithful man in Bible times, said:
“I will speak out in my bitter distress!”
When someone
knows what you’re going through,
he or she can lower the rope
and pull you out of the pit.
Here’s another idea:
Why not put your thoughts on paper?
At Proverbs 3:21, the Bible tells us
to “safeguard practical wisdom
and thinking ability.”
Writing about your feelings
can help you do that.
Once they’re on paper,
you can sort them out,
and then the sadness can be less overpowering.
A third suggestion:
The Bible says
that if you pray about your concerns,
‘the peace of God
that surpasses all understanding
will guard your hearts and thoughts.’
So don’t forget prayer.
Last but certainly not least,
reading the Bible can help
—especially the book of Psalms.
Filling your mind
with positive thoughts from the Bible
can have a positive effect on your feelings.
But what if your feelings just won’t go away?
What if you’ve lost interest
in just about all activities
that you used to find exciting?
What if you seem to have no appetite,
have trouble sleeping,
and suffer
from intense feelings of worthlessness?
If symptoms persist,
why not talk to your parents
about getting a checkup?
A physician can help determine
if your sadness has a medical cause,
such as clinical depression.
If you do suffer from clinical depression,
it is nothing to be ashamed of.
With treatment,
many sufferers have begun to feel better
—perhaps even the best
they have felt in a long time.
So whether your sadness
is caused by depression or not,
with assistance and effort,
you can get out of the deep pit of sadness.
Remember,
feelings are temporary; they will pass.
And if you can learn to deal with them now,
you’ll be prepared to handle them as an adult.
By taking things a day at a time
and relying on the support of your parents
and trustworthy friends,
you can go from sad
to glad.